Now, let's look at the data that goes in
the other end of the machine learning training process.
These are the outputs that we want the model to learn.
They're often called labels or targets.
I'll refer to these as targets.
If you think back to when we proposed and tested potential output factors,
can you think of what the targets were in those cases?
They were the forward returns of each stock.
But recall that given the low signal to noise ratio typical of financial data,
we may want to process the returns data into a signal that
is easier for the machine learning model to train on.
One way to simplify the targets would be to classify
all the positive returns as one label and all the non-positive returns as
another label then the machine learning model would train to determine
based on the inputs whether the following returns are positive or not.
The downside to having just two classes is that the model can't distinguish
between small positive returns and very large positive returns.
An approach that you may see in books or in the literature is to
choose various thresholds and bucket the returns into,
say, low positive returns,
medium positive returns, and high positive returns.
This approach also runs into another issue which is namely,
what should these thresholds be?
We may pick a threshold that neatly buckets the returns during one period.
But if you recall,
market regimes are not constant.
For example, the overall market volatility varies at different points in time,
and the market return is also changing over time.
Constant thresholds for bucketing these returns wouldn't give
us useful targets due to these market changes.
We can think about why that is.
Let's say we have constant thresholds that have three categories for small, medium,
and large positive returns,
and another three categories for small,
medium, and large negative returns.
If the market is rallying so that all the stock returns are positive,
then the targets all end up in the positive region.
You may recall our discussion about the importance of neutralizing
major risk factors such as market and sector risks.
Having constant thresholds does not allow us to create targets that are market neutral.
Can you think of what else we could try?
Well, there are lots of complex approaches to creating targets.
The approach that follows is quite good at handling changing
market regimes and also benefits from a simple implementation.
This approach is to quantize the target.
In other words, categorize the targets into quantiles that are determined for each day.
This allows us to account for changing market volatility,
market dispersion, and market risks.